well in an attempt to contain the
conflict to stop it from spreading to
The Wider region the French President
Emmanuel maon has become the latest
world leader to to visit Israel first in
a show of strong solidarity speaking
alongside his Israeli counterpart Isaac
Herzog he said the first objective of
Israel's war in Gaza should be to secure
the release of all the hostages
president Manon added that it was
Israel's duty to fight against Hamas
without enlarging the conflict he's due
to visit the Palestinian president
Mahmud abas in the occupied West Bank
later today if I'm here with my my
delegation it's indeed first to express
our support and solidarity and share
your
pain what happened 7th of
October is an hour full terrorist attack
against your people your
nation it's right
and it was an immense shock for the
whole planet especially in
France I'm here to express our
solidarity today and
tomorrow and that was Emanuel maon
speaking earlier alongside Israel's
president Isaac Herzog Mr maon is
currently meeting Israel's prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu uh and this
is part of a two visit to the region
what can he achieve in this time we live
now to fris Joseph shishan A former
French diplomat and consultant at the
Strategic advisory firm Flint Global
thank you very much for uh for joining
us today of course we've we've just been
hearing from one of the elderly Israeli
hostages who uh they were both released
overnight and we've been hearing about
uh this particular hostages yov liit how
should was taken into the Gaza Strip and
how she was treated there Emanuel maon
says releasing all of the hostages has
to be a top priority for Israel
today yes I mean this is one of the key
objectives of em macon's visit to the
region alongside showing unequivocal and
ambiguous support to to Israel and the
right to Israel to defend itself um and
also at the same time avoiding or trying
to Avid working towards avoiding
escalation of the conflict for in the
waterer region um while protecting the
human humanitarian situation in in in in
in Palestine in Gaza in particular so
it's a very delicate balancing exercise
that the president has to do while um
visiting the region um and I think there
are 24 French people that have been
killed in the attack two weeks ago um
and also um around I mean seven people
perhaps who have been taken hostage
while French national French Israeli
dual Nationals um so so this is going to
be an important focus of the present
visit
indeed and also dual Nationals amongst
the uh civilian population inside Gaza
we've seen um many Gaza civilians
holding foreign passports uh in the in
the air um and obviously appealing to uh
their governments to to try and help
them amongst those fronts but as you say
Emanuel M has a very delicate Balancing
Act here he wants to stop the conflict
spreading in the wide region but Express
strong solidarity for Israel but also
explain concern about Palestinian
civilians and what we've been hearing is
anger amongst Palestinians and in The
Wider Middle East at countries Western
countries like France accusing them of
hypocrisy of not caring enough about
Palestinian uh civilians in this case uh
emphasizing Israel's right to defend
itself whereas they say and this was
said again at the Europeans at a at a
peace Summit in Cairo they're accusing
the west of hypocrisy um in its attitude
with uh towards ukrainians when Russia
invaded
there I think the president has been
very clear about the humanitarian
situation and the need to uh to protect
civilians within the Gaza Strip that has
been a constant message of the French
government of the French President um so
um you know there was a time at the
start of the crisis where you know
strong support and unequivocal support
for Israel was was necessary given the
scale of the attack and the shock that
it represented in uh in many if not all
Western and European countries in
particular um and I think the purpose of
the trip uh of the president to the
region is really to deliver that message
message extremely strongly while um uh
make taking steps and and you know also
conveying the message that respecting
humanitarian law international human
humanitarian is also an very important
if not um decisive element of the crisis
um to to work towards um a resolution at
some point I think this is also what the
the Pres trip is about to start um a
discussion not just with Israeli by the
way because the president as we say is
going to meet mmud Abbas as well and
he's going to talk to Arab leaders as
well in the next couple of days um so
this is going to be a long conflict and
I think the president is sort of
positioning France as a key intell in
the region to prepare the ground for the
resolution of the conf conflict but this
is going to take time and this is going
to also require coordination among
Western countries and the EU as as we
speak is is also trying to coordinate a
coherent position um for the conflict
going
forward but it it is although it's not
doing very well I mean there's
disagreement amongst the EU 27 countries
about their exact uh position here we
did see France um release a statement
alongside the United States Canada Italy
Germany and the UK so there are attempts
at working together in diplomatic terms
but this also hits home for France
directly doesn't it I mean France is
home to the biggest Jewish community in
Europe and the biggest Muslim Community
in Europe and France is is worried about
the conflict coming
home yes indeed absolutely and that also
explains partly why the president is of
waiting have waited has waited a few
days before uh going into into Israel
there was there was some issues
internally domestically that need needed
to be addressed and we've seen the
terror attacks in north of France
shortly after um the attack in Israel
that that really shocked the country um
and um and the president was very much
focused on on that for for a few days um
and we continue to be focused on that
you know to protect the the security
because there is a clear sense that the
the um the crisis in the Middle East is
having a political impact in Western
countries that has always been the case
but you're right specifically in France
there is a a specific situation here
which means that this particular
conflict has huge ramifications for for
France both socially and politically and
we have seen also um the crisis within
the leftwing Coalition um in France
because of the positioning of some some
political leaders so the the conflict is
starting to also you know affect the
political landscape as a whole and and
the balancing exercise that I was
talking about for Israel also applies to
France and the president um is is also
aiming at at you know preserving
stability and Security in France